# Instacart-Market-Basket-Analysis
>This repo looks to uncover the relationships among grocery items frequently purchased together from instacart. The 'Summary Report' word document answers specific questions that are useful to understanding concepts of Big Data and how it applies to a company such as Instacart. Furthermore, this document lays out analytics of the data, how customer segmentation was performed, what the segmented groups look like and is able to offer insight into product recommendations for each customer group. 
>
>To supplement the summary report and appreciate how conclusions were drawn, the files containing the detailed work are within the repo. Specifically, Tableau was first used for analyzing the data. The 'Product Info' is an axplanatory analysis of Instacart items. 'User Info' attempts to garner ideas of how customers may be segmented. However, this appeared too crude of an analysis.
>
>To get a better idea of customer segmentation there are Python files, each labeled according to the work being performed within the file. It begins with understanding and pre-processing the data. The data is then segmented using PCA and Kmeans clustering. PCA is first used for dimensionality reduction meanwhile maintaining the highest level of variance. The data is then clustered using unsupervised learning, and what is drawn from the feature importance is that there is segmentation that resembles what is commonly used in business models. That is, the RFM model or recency, frequency and monetary customer segmentation. Then association apriori rules are applied using MLxtend library to discover frequently purchased item sets for each customer segmentation. 
>
>Lastly, Tableau is again used to get a visual representation of what item sets are purchased together. Specifically, it is able to delineate more clearly those with the highest lift. To note, the three clusters are represented as 0, 1, and 2.
